Fix issue 6272: clarify why to set image width and height (#28113)
mdn/content: files/en-us/learn/html/multimedia_and_embedding/images_in_html/index.md

### Width and height

You can use the [`width`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/img#width) and [`height`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/img#height) attributes to specify the width and height of your image. They are given as integers without a unit, and represent the image's width and height in pixels.

> You can find your image's width and height in a number of ways. For example on the Mac you can use <kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>I</kbd> to get the info display up for the image file. Returning to our example, we could do this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find your image's width and height in a number of ways. For example, on the Mac you can use <kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>I</kbd> to get the display information for the image file. Returning to our example, we could do this:
```

  height="341" />
```

> There's a very good reason to do this. The HTML for your page and the image are separate resources, fetched by the browser as separate HTTP(S) requests. As soon as the browser has received the HTML, it will start to display it to the user. If the images haven't yet been received (and this will often be the case, as images are often much bigger than HTML), then the browser will display only the HTML, and will update the page with the image as soon as it is received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's a very good reason to do this. The HTML for your page and the image are separate resources, fetched by the browser as separate HTTP(S) requests. As soon as the browser has received the HTML, it will start to display it to the user. If the images haven't yet been received (and this will often be the case, as image file sizes are often much larger than HTML files), then the browser will render only the HTML, and will update the page with the image as soon as it is received.
```

  title="A T-Rex on display in the Manchester University Museum" />
<blockquote>
  <p>
    But down there it would be dark now, and not the lovely lighted aquarium she
    imagined it to be during the daylight hours, eddying with schools of tiny,
    delicate animals floating and dancing slowly to their own serene currents
    and creating the look of a living painting. That was wrong, in any case. The
    ocean was different from an aquarium, which was an artificial environment.
    The ocean was a world. And a world is not art. Dorothy thought about the
    living things that moved in that world: large, ruthless and hungry. Like us
    up here.
  </p>
  <footer>- Rachel Ingalls, <cite>Mrs. Caliban</cite></footer>
</blockquote>
```

As soon as the browser downloads the HTML, the browser will start to display the page.

Once the image is loaded, the browser adds the image to the page. Because the image takes up space, the browser has to move the text down the page, to fit the image above it:

![Comparison of page layout while the browser is loading a page and when it has finished, when no size is specified for the image.](no-size.png)

> Moving the text like this is extremely distracting to users, especially if they have already started to read it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This "jank", the moving or already rendered content, is extremely distracting to users, especially if they have already started reading or otherwise interacting with the page.
```

OK as is, but we may want to add the "jank" term, which is what this performance faux-pas is commonly called.

Reviewer: maybe link the word jank to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Performance/Multimedia#rendering_strategy_preventing_jank_when_loading_images, or add this article to the # see also

Author: I would like to keep this as it is, since it is the critical point here and I would like to keep the sentence as simple as possible.

If you specify the actual size of the image in your HTML, using the `width` and `height` attributes, then the browser knows, before it has downloaded the image, how much space it has to allow for it.

This means that when the image has been downloaded, the browser doesn't have to move the surrounding content.

![Comparison of page layout while the browser is loading a page and when it has finished, when the image size is specified.](size.png)

> For an excellent article on the history of this feature, see [Setting Height And Width On Images Is Important Again](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2020/03/setting-height-width-images-important-again/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an excellent article on the history of this feature, see [Setting height and width on images is important again](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2020/03/setting-height-width-images-important-again/).
```
Our writing guidelines read:

 > Use sentence casing in the link text even if it is different from the linked page title or section title.
 
 I am assuming that is for external links, but can't seem to find the reference at the moment to double check.
